Want to understand acceleration mechanism, how the energy and momentum exchange work
Unerstanding what the source term looks like
1d state of equations to model against
1d steady state wind, shooting method

Phil - 
Exoplanet transit, wind coming off of the planet blocks out a large prat of the star. You get velocity information too, looking in lyman alpha. See blueshifts and redshifts. There's a deeper drop in the blyeshifted case, so whatever is absorbing the outgoing starlight is coming TOWARD you. Ly A tells you aobut the kinematics of the outflow. Not a spherical outflow --- tiday gravity of the star, could be stellar wnd too that affects the flow. Wind comes off of the planet, but the wind itself needs the radiation force ocnsidered. Ly a is a probe o fkinematics but is also dynamically important for the system. 

Do a simple case for my project -- use MC to calculate steady state cases. Irradiation of planetary atmosphere. Parcel of gas in the atmosphere at low column depth. Ly a coming in from the star which pushes the gas inward (toward the planet), pressure forces pushing outward, but the whole planet is irradiated and has radiation in the lyman continuum. Shorter wavelength ly photons can penetrate deeper in the atmosphere. But column depth is much higher as you go in, so a photoionization happens at high density, which recombines quickly. Durin recombination, most of them wil get in first excited state, then drop to ground, which produces ly a. Two sources of ly a --- from the star, then from photoionization and recombination in the planetary atmosphere. Which one is bigger, as a funciton of optical depth? Winds can be driven by heat alone (thermal wind), but radiation forces can be larger than the thermal forces at lower column depths. In a 1d model, what is the balance of forces due to Ly a? If you have a ly a deep i nthe atmo, that then has to go out. Resonant scattering with ly a: You have a photon that ocmes in and interacts with the ground state electron, gets absorbed and then goes in to first excited state, but de-excites almost immediately radiatively. For some atomes you can absorb and then de-excite via collision, so then those photons heat the gas. But, resonant scattering -- deexcitation time is so fast that it radiates almost immediately. Energy of the photon is unchanged. Energy is defined by the transition, but the velocity of the atom hasn't had time ot change. No change in the frequency of the photon. Not scattering --- absorption and re-emission! But it's fast. Resonance lines are very optically thick, have high oscillator strengths, de-excitation happens very quickly. When you absorb them really deep in the atmostphere, bc of oscillator strength, they have to scatter a lot to get out. Numbre of scatterings doesn't go as tau^2, since there are little doppler shifts every time the thing excites and de-excites. The energy is close to the same, but not exactly the same, because the doppler shift is dependent on ANGLE. In the atom's frame the angl echanges, which changes the frequency of the photon as it goes out. Slow changes in the frequency as it scatters out. opacity is really strong at line center, but as you move out it gets more optically thin and escapes. It takes a long time for that to happen. Large number of scatterings for it to scatter out into the wind on average. What we want to do is speed the process up. In a given cell, to cross the cell, tau = 10^7, or 8, takes 10^7 scatterings to get across it. This is a very toptically thick region, so the photon is essentially diffusing. Draw a sphere around the photon and find out where it leaves the sphere. MC the distribution of the outgoing photon propertie.s Instead of 10^7 small scatterings, move the photon randomly to the edge of the sphere. Come up with an analytical limit to the diffusion. Not a great solution when compared with the monte carlo. Separation of variables????? Not accurate because it's not a constant. Phil has a better solution, not perfec, but much closer. Will use Phil's analytical solution (undergrad will code this up and test against monte carlo). Makes sure we can sub MC for analytical. By end of summer I will use acceleration thing that ug provides. 

Sobol, Subanyev --- Compton scattering MC, more like Ly a case. 
Whitney paper - thompson scattering, doesn't worry about transforming into frame of electron

K dot v determines which atom you're more likely to react with. Distribution of atom velocity, then draw scattering outgoing direction in the frame of the atom. Then transform back from
the atom frame to the lab frame.

Ly a emitters in early universe --- a lot use MC methods for cosmology.
